My agency runs hundreds of tests after
each Google update. And the businesses
that fix these eight things right now
are getting cited by AI, paying less for
every click, and showing up everywhere
their competitors are disappearing.
I'm Neil Patel. I'm the co-founder of NP
Digital, which just won Performance
Marketing Agency of the Year by Ad Age.
And in this video, I'm going to show you
exactly what changed, what is affecting
both your SEO, your ad costs, and the
step-by-step fixes to get ahead of it.
Step one, make your website fast.
But first, I need to tell you why this
matters more than ever. Because Google
just changed something big.
For 25 years, Google treated your
website as a one-way for organic search
and completely different way for ads.
Two separate systems. Your SEO people
did their thing, and your ad people did
their thing. That separation is no
longer viable. Nikki Lamb, she's our VP
of SEO at NP Digital, put it best. She
said, "The biggest lever for improving
your PMAX and AI Max performance isn't a
budget tweak. It's strategic website
optimization." Because Google's AI now
relies heavily on your website to create
ads, determine relevance, and choose
landing pages. Your website isn't just
where people land anymore. It's a source
material that Google's AI pulls from to
run your campaigns. And the very first
thing that AI evaluates whether your
site actually works. Google Smart
Bidding uses your conversion rate as one
of its most important signals. If your
page takes 4 or 5 seconds to load,
people bounce before they convert. The
AI sees that low conversion rate, and
it's less likely to spend budget sending
people to that page. And here's the
bigger picture. A fast, clean landing
page can improve your conversion rate,
which helps both your organic visibility
and your ad efficiency. A slow page
hurts both.
So, here's what you do.
Go to Google PageSpeed Insights. It's
free. Test your top landing pages. Fix
the slowest ones.
One fix, two systems benefit. Now, most
people stop here. They fix the speed,
and they think they're done. But speed
is just where Google's AI can get to
your website. Step two is about what it
finds when it gets there.
Step two,
clean up words on your website.
Because Google's AI is pulling from your
headlines to help build your ads. PMAX
takes the text on your website, your
headlines, your title tags, your
descriptions, and uses that as a source
of material to generate ad copy. AI Max
does something similar with its text
customization feature, dynamically
writing ads based on what's on your
pages. So, whatever your homepage
headline says right now, Google's AI
might be using that to create ads for
your business. If your headline is
vague, "Our solutions" or "Welcome to
our website," the AI has bad raw
material to work with, and it builds ads
that nobody wants to click. But you
still pay for their impressions.
The mistake, writing title tags for
search bots instead of humans. Keyword
stuffing, vague, zero conversion intent.
The fix is simple. Go through your most
important pages and ask one question.
If this headline showed up as a Google
ad, would someone click it? If the
answer is no, rewrite it. Make it
specific. Make it about what you
actually do for people and why they
should care.
Your website copy is now source material
for your ad copy. Every headline
matters. But words are only part of what
the AI pulls from your site. It also
grabs your images and videos. If you
don't have good ones, you might not like
what it creates instead.
Step three, add real images and videos
to your key pages.
Here's why. PMAX needs video assets to
run effectively across YouTube, display,
and discover. If you don't provide them,
the system can auto-generate low-quality
videos to fill the gap. And those run
with your brand name attached. Same
thing happens with images. [music] No
good photos on your landing pages? The
AI works with whatever it finds. Stock
[music] images, random graphics,
whatever's there. The fix, you don't
need fancy production. Get a clean,
well-lit 15-to-30-second video on your
pages. [music] Use real photos, your
product, your team, your results, not
stock. That gives PMAX quality material
to work across every channel. And
[music] it future-proofs your site for
multimodal search, where Google can show
video results directly in AI-powered
answers.
Now, if you sell products online, the
next [music] step is huge for your
shopping ads. If you don't, skip it to
step [music] five.
Step four, this is for anyone selling
products online.
Your product feed. The data you send to
Google Merchant Center about what you
sell is the foundation of shopping ads
within PMAX. Rich data drastically
improves ad relevance and quality score.
And most brands are only filling out
half the fields. The fix, add
everything. Brand name, color, size,
materials. The more detail you give
Google about each product, the better it
can match the right product to the right
buyer, including hyper-specific
long-tail searches.
Thin product data means the AI has less
to work with. And that shows up in your
results.
Now, here's where the playbook shifts.
Step one through four fixes what's
broken. Step five through eight [music]
builds real competitive advantages. The
gap between businesses doing one versus
the other is where the money is.
Now, if you don't have time to implement
any of these steps, or you just want
help with a few of them, check out my ad
agency NP Digital, where we help
companies grow. And we've done so well
that we were named Performance Marketing
Agency of the Year by Ad Age because of
the results we're driving to our
clients.
Step five, help Google's AI understand
what your website actually does.
Right now, Google's AI is reading your
site to try to figure out what each page
is about. But without the right signals,
it's making its best guess. And when it
guesses wrong, it can show the wrong
page in results or build less relevant
ads. There's a way to give it much
clearer signals. It's called schema
markup.
Think of it as labels you add behind the
scenes that tells Google exactly what is
on each page. When you add these labels,
something valuable happens. Google can
use that data to generate richer ad
extensions. Things like star rating,
pricing info, and FAQ answers that show
up right in your ad. Those extras can
boost your click-through rates, which
means more clicks for the same budget.
The fix, ask your developer on your SEO
team to add schema markup to your top
five conversion pages. Now, everything
up to this point helps make your website
visible and understandable to Google's
AI. The next two steps are what helps
build trust. And trust is where the real
separation happens.
Step six, stop creating a bunch of small
pages on similar topics. Instead, build
one deep page that covers everything.
Here's what happens at a lot of
businesses. They create 20 or 30
separate blog posts on slightly
different versions of the same topic.
Best CRMs for small businesses, best CRM
for startups, best CRM for sales teams.
All different pages.
That used to be the move. But now,
Google's AI
has a harder time figuring out which
page to best match for a given search.
Especially when PMAX uses URL expansion
to choose where to send your paid
traffic. If it can't identify a clear
winner, it might pick the wrong page or
a weaker one. The fix, take your most
important topic [music] and build one
deep, comprehensive page. Cover every
angle. Organize it with clear sections
and a table of contents. Make [music] it
the definitive source. When Google's AI
sees a strong pillar page, it's more
likely to map broad search intent to the
right landing page in organic and in
your ad campaigns.
One strong page tends to outperform 15
scattered ones. And for AI Max, deep
[music] topical content helps the system
expands your reach into complex
conversational searches that don't match
any specific keyword.
>> [music]
>> Those are some of the fastest-growing
query types right now.
Build depth in a topic, and both systems
can reward you. But there's a level
above topical depth, and it's [music]
the hardest thing for competitors to
copy.
Step seven, show Google and your
customers that real people trust you.
Google doesn't just read content. It
looks to see whether your site
demonstrates genuine expertise,
experience, and trustworthiness.
They call this E-A-T.
And it influences how Google's system
evaluates the quality of your content.
Think about it from Google's
perspective. If the AI is going to use
your website as a source material for
ads or feature it in search results, it
wants to know you're credible, just like
a person would.
The more of these signals your site has,
the more Google's systems can work in
your favor.
The article from our team found that
these trust signals help build what they
call implicit brand trust signals, the
kind that can lead to higher ad quality
and better conversions over time. The
mistake that most people make, they try
to shortcut this with spammy backlinks
from whatever domain will link to them.
That's the old game. The new game is
real credibility, real reviews, real
expertise, real people behind the
content. You can't fake it. But most of
your competitors haven't even started
building it yet. That's the window.
One more step, and the last one turns
all seven fixes into a system that gets
better every single month.
Step eight, get your SEO team and your
paid team in the same room.
Every step in this video works on its
own, but there's one thing that makes
all of them compound. And almost no
marketing teams do it. Here's the
problem. Most companies have their SEO
team looking at one set of data and
their ad team looking at completely
different [music] set. They never
compare notes. They never share what
they're learning. But Google's AI treats
your entire website as one system. It
doesn't know your teams are separate. It
doesn't care. The fix, once a month get
both teams together. Look at what
searches are driving paid conversions.
Then have your SEO team build content
around those topics. Those pages feed
back into the ad system as stronger
landing pages. Cost can go down, results
can go up, and the cycle repeats. At the
same time, your SEO team can spot
irrelevant searches that are wasting ad
budget. Flagging them for the paid team,
exclude them. Budget saved immediately.
This is how you turn eight one-time
fixes into a self-improving machine. The
website gets better. The ads get more
efficient. The data feeds back, and the
whole thing accelerates.
That's a new playbook. Eight fixes, one
system, and it works for your organic
and paid. If you want to see how
Google's AI mode is changing the entire
search landscape, watch this video next.